there is a very big change coming to
short form video content specifically
Instagram reals and Tik Tok videos and
no it's not the looming Tik Tok band
it's a total shift in the way we create
and consume content and it's being
pioneered by one of the most famous
entrepreneurs in The Last 5 Years and
someone who very much pioneered the way
we currently consume educational
entrepreneurial content on short form
video today we're going to be talking
about what has been working in the world
of short form video and what's going to
be working in the near
future I also want to make a quick
disclaimer that if you're watching on
YouTube and you notice that my shelves
are completely empty and my couch is
missing it's because we're moving out
we're renovating and so you know just
just deal with it you know focus on the
content and not the vanity now let's get
into specifics what I was talking about
that famous entrepreneur who pioneered
the kind of content that we're very much
used to seeing today is Alex horoi you
may or may not know him but essentially
over the last 5 years he's gained
massive popularity for an aggressive
level of consistency but a very specific
style of video this style of video is
very highly edited it has these really
big bold attention grabbing uh closed
captioning on it it's not just closed
captioning for the sake of transcribing
the video it's closed captioning for the
sake of holding on to the audience's
attention in fact many people refer to
today's style of short form video as
hormos style editing it's very
fast-paced there's lots of zooms and
cuts and and b-roll and background video
and green screen and effects and all of
these different things to keep the
viewers stimulated even if the content
itself isn't that engaging another
example of hormos style videos are the
videos where people look like they're on
podcasts and I hate to break it to you I
hate to be the bearer of bad news but
many of these podcasts that you see
people posting on social media are not
actually podcasts they're just fake
podcasts where someone has a microphone
that isn't even plugged in and it's just
meant to look like a podcast because for
whatever reason on social media for the
last few years that's been something
that really provides some credibility or
some social clout and these clips that
look like they're taken out of a podcast
oftentimes would get better engagement
that was until recently over recent
months these highly edited videos these
podcast esque Clips have been performing
worse and in today's episode we're going
to talk about why that is and what's
coming next and this is something that
I've seen happening over the last few
months I've been noticing it within my
own content and I actually recently did
a study of the reals that I've been
posting on Instagram and specifically I
wanted to compare the reals where I was
sitting here at my desk I had like my
nice office set up my professional
microphone my professional editing done
by my editor and compare those to the
reals that were a lot less professional
in every way so they were either filmed
without a microphone or with a cheap $10
microphone off of Amazon they weren't
filmed in my professional office with my
fancy lighting and all this stuff and my
fancy camera they were just filmed on my
phone usually the only source of light
was like the sun or maybe a lamp and the
only editing was trimming out dead space
and trimming out mistakes there weren't
like zooms and cuts and Transitions and
sound effects and all these other fancy
things and I definitely had my own
hypothesis going into this study as to
which kind of content would perform best
maybe even as I'm talking right now you
have your own thought in your brain of
which of these two kinds of posts is
going to perform better but when I
actually crunched the numbers and looked
looked at the data I was shocked to see
the outcome my reels that were more raw
imperfect in the moment that did not
have a fancy camera a fancy microphone
fancy lighting or fancy editing
performed far better in fact on average
I got 81% more views when I was doing
this raw imperfect style of content I
also got 81% more reach that one makes
sense views and reach are pretty much
interchangeable when it comes to your
reels but I also got 85% more likes that
was crazy to me
85% more likes when I was filming this
raw imperfect on my phone style of
content and I got 35% more shares which
if you've listened to some of our recent
episodes of build your tribe you will
know that shares are absolutely
essential in our opinion Shares are the
best form of engagement on Instagram
Instagram CEO has actually said this
himself that he believes Shares are the
best way to reach new people and if you
think about it it makes sense likes are
very easy to come by comments usually
require some amount of investment by
your audience saves don't really do much
for your post because people are saving
things to watch them later but then they
rarely ever do but a share is literally
someone spreading your post to their
friend it's someone sending your post in
their group chat or to their bff or
their spouse or or even sharing it to
their story and so that's why on average
one share on Instagram equates to 400
additional views and so it was really
impressive to see that this raw
imperfect content the content that
arguably was quote unquote less
presentable actually got 35% more shares
the amount of saves that I was getting
depending on the kind of content I was
posting was almost no difference there
was there was a very very small percent
difference between the professional
videos like you're watching right now
and the more raw imperfect videos the
only real statistic that did better or
that was uh higher I guess you could say
when it was a very professional well
done video was comments and I think I
can explain this one I think that this
one was because usually my content that
asks for a many chat keyword which is
basically asking people to comment that
is usually the style of post that is
highly edited because I'm thinking about
it ahead of time I'm planning it often
times it's like a sponsored post or a
partnership or a promotion or a sale and
so I'm planning it ahead of time I'm
recording it I'm scripting it I'm having
my editor professionally edit it and so
it makes sense that that style of
content is getting the most comments but
I don't think it's necessarily because
of that style of content I think it's
just because of how I've treated that
style of content if that makes sense but
really to summarize all of these
statistics what I found is that videos
that are recorded on my phone with a
cheap microphone with no lighting with
very little editing with very little
scripting usually perform far better
than the more expensive harder to
produce higher quality content that I
can make with a fancy camera fancy
lights and a fancy microphone so not to
get too far ahead of ourselves here but
what am I going to do I'm going to take
all of the scripts all of the things
that I've already recorded with my fancy
setup and I'm just going to record them
a second time with my non fancy setup
with my phone and my cheap microphone
I've already written out the script I
already have the hook I already have the
call to action in many cases I've
already posted it so I already have an
idea of how this content will perform or
maybe even what parts of the content are
lacking what could be improved I'm just
now going to use that as a template and
re-record it on my phone so I can make
essentially double the amount of posts
with very little additional effort like
I don't have to be more creative I just
have to take a couple seconds to record
it on my phone so that's what I'm going
to be doing not to jump too far ahead of
ourselves but again I brought up Alex
horoi and how he was one of the pioneers
of this fancy style of production right
with a nice camera lighting microphone
Etc I've said it 50 times by now but he
made an announcement on Instagram and I
thought even the announcement itself was
very funny because it was a screenshot
of something that he had very clear CLE
written in his Notes app and even the
screenshot was like janky there was like
you know a little graphic in the corner
that was not supposed to be there it was
just like part of what happened when he
took the screenshot there was like the
little scroll thing on the right hand
side which was also not supposed to be
there but nonetheless I thought it was
interesting that in this announcement it
was kind of meta that the announcement
itself was very like rough and informal
and nonprofessional it wasn't like this
beautifully you know typed out graphic
design it was it was kind of like a
thought almost if you will and I think
that's a good way to think about pun
intended this style of content that is
more rough around the edges and more in
the moment is it's sharing thoughts even
if these thoughts aren't fully formed or
they're not fully connected or they're
not you know Punchy into the point
they're more organic and so here is his
announcement I'll read it to you word
for word and uh you can find it on his
Instagram we'll also put it up on the
screen if you're watching on YouTube
announcement I made 35,000 pieces of
content over the last 3 years and I made
making changes first and foremost I want
to stop right there by saying that he
has made I should say probably his team
has helped him make 35,000 pieces of
content that is wild even for someone
like myself who posts multiple times a
day on every single platform the idea of
making 35,000 pieces of content in 3
years is wild in fact if you do the math
on that 35,000 pieces of content in 3
years is about 32 pieces of content per
day now he used the term make and I
would assume he's not actually making 32
videos per day part of that is like
posting 32 videos maybe if he has you
know five videos that he's posting per
day but he's posting them across six
different platforms that's 30 videos per
day right there still super high volume
I'm not trying to discredit him I'm
actually trying to do the opposite I'm
trying to prove to you that if you want
to get good at content creation if you
want to blow up if you want more
followers more customers more sales it
is ultimately a numbers game that is the
stage of social media we're at from 20
05 to 2015 we were in a social media
sphere where you could reliably get a
good amount of Engagement by posting a
few times a week and you would grow that
way and it was all about social
relationships and who are you friends
with and who are they friends with and
we're going to recommend you but in
today's world of social media where
we're competing with ads and with
marketers and social media managers and
and major corporate accounts the more
you post the more you grow this has been
confirmed by Instagram CEO this is
something I've been saying for years and
also not only the more you post the more
you grow the more you post the better
your content is going to get it's
essentially practice so not to go off on
too much of a tangent here not to stop
his announcement too early even though I
know we're literally two sentences into
this announcement but 32 posts per day
over 3 years extremely impressive and
that is the reason why so many of us
know him but let's get back into the
announcement he said number one no more
wide slen content I'm only making making
business stuff for business this is huge
and I love that he said this because
really what this is is is Niche right
this is what we have been saying for
years step one to growing on Instagram
on Tik Tok on YouTube on any platform is
niching down in fact recently my mom
niched down her own Instagram account
and saw growth for the first time in
months maybe even years of course you
might know her you might look at her
Instagram and be like oh she's got 700
something thousand followers that's so
impressive you know she's crushing it
but behind the scenes she was aware that
for many months she wasn't growing and
that's because if you followed my mom on
Instagram you know that her ADHD has
taken her in a million different
directions and she didn't have a clear
Niche sometimes she would post about the
insta clubhub or growing on Instagram or
marketing sometimes she would post about
entrepreneurship and business sometimes
she would talk about Fitness and
menopause a lot of times she would talk
about ADHD there was a long period of
time where she was talking about being a
caretaker for my grandpa and dealing
with his Alzheimer's so she had all
these different niches all these
different directions she was going down
and while her audience was liking it and
her engagement was not bad she wasn't
growing but she wanted to grow she
wanted to grow with a very specific kind
of person someone who would be
interested in her platform her program
phase it up and so she challenged
herself and partially I challenged her
to Niche down and so for a few weeks she
got super hyper specific about menopause
premenopause postmenopause and really
ways that you can like do Fitness and
weight loss and and walking challenges
and all of these different like Fitness
hypers specific things on her Instagram
and she started to grow again and now
she's over 800,000 followers she hit
800k right as I hit 700k shout out to
her that is flipping awesome and going
back to what heroi said no more wide
slen content I'm only making business
stuff for business and this is how he
blew up in the first place is with
business stuff for business but now that
he's blown up he started to post about
like his Fitness and what he wears in
the day and like his meal hacks and all
these different things but he's going
deep in just one area he's doing
business stuff for business so he's
doing a niche he's focusing on One
Singular topic most likely so that he
can continue to grow his following
continue to expand his reach and also he
probably recognizes that people who are
looking for business stuff are likely
going to be better customers who are
going to stick around for longer and be
willing to pay more than a bunch of Jim
Bros who are following him for like the
latest hack on how to make a 300 g of
protein smoothie that you could drink
after you work out now that was just the
first bullet point of his announcement
but I thought it was very important that
we touch on it that wasn't really the
focus of today's episode though the
focus of today's episode was really his
second and third part of the
announcement the second part of the
announcement reads no more add quote
high production it will be light edits
and mostly uncut this is a complete 180
flip from what he was previously posting
and this was actually something that we
saw happen about 6 months ago with Mr
Beast on YouTube you may or may not be
familiar with Mr Beast but he is the
biggest YouTuber in the world many of
his videos in fact the majority of his
videos well over a 100 million views
he's got hundreds of millions of
subscribers he is crushing it and he
very much pioneered a very fast pace
editing style and now what he's doing is
he's still treating the first I think he
said like 10 to 30 seconds of his
YouTube videos as like a fastpaced
almost like a trailer a preview
something to hook his audience in but
after that he's very much taking the
same approach that Alex heroi reports
here which is not the high production
the ADHD content I love that way of
describing it and mostly light edits and
mostly uncut which means that he's not
spending a lot of time or money or
effort chopping up his videos and adding
all these Transitions and effects he's
really relying on the content the
storytelling uh and the actual purpose
of the video to hook in his audience and
deliver his message I think this is
really interesting and this also Echoes
what I have found and discovered with my
own stats with my own reels over the
last 6 months the more lighter edits the
uncut videos are performing better and
later we're going to talk about why I
think this is but I think you might
already have some ideas in your head so
go ahead and keep thinking about those
as we continue his third announcement
that he made as part of this post was
more long form that was it three words
more long form period and this is what
the platforms are heading towards all of
these platforms recognize that if they
can keep their people watching minute
long videos people are going to spend
more time on the platform than if
they're only watching 7sec videos
additionally if people are watching
Minute long videos on Tik Tok and
Instagram and YouTube creators have to
create less content let's make the super
simple and I'll just use like my own
account as an example let's say I were
to post a 6C re and I had 100 people
view that real for the full 6 seconds
well that would be 600 seconds of
viewing now let's take a 60-second video
I would only have to have 10 people
watch that full video to have the same
retention rate the same uh amount of
total time watched that also means that
I now have to create less content
because if I can have a 100 people
watching ing a 60-second video that is
quite literally 10 times more watch time
than if I were to have 100 people watch
a 6sec video the platform wins because
people are spending more time on the
platform the creators win because now we
have to create less content and the
consumer doesn't need as much to consume
essentially what a lot of these
platforms were running into on a very
high level and this is going to sound
crazy they were running out of content
that was at the same A+ level of
Engagement all of these platforms
YouTube Tik Tok Instagram Twitter
whatever they are all trying to serve us
the most engaging content possible the
A+ content the content that we would be
super interested in so that we stay on
the platform and if we're super
interested in a 6sec video we're going
to spend less time and they're going to
need more videos than if we're super
interested in an A+ 60-second video so
that's why all these platforms are
heading towards long form content and
that means that they're going to reward
the creators not who post long form cont
content but who post engaging long form
content and that's the real key because
I always get people asking how long
should my reals be how long should my
YouTube videos be how long should my Tik
toks be and I like to tell them a great
rule that I learned from this actually
this name was come up with by one of our
insta clubhub students and what they
said is it's the miniskirt rule your
content should be long enough to cover
what needs to be covered but short
enough to hold attention and I think
that's a great way to think about it so
if you make a 90 second reel but people
aren't going to pay attention for 90
seconds then you're wasting your time
you'd be better off creating a shorter
one now there is no sweet spot I can't
tell you make a 37c reel make a 62
second Tik Tok video every audience is
going to be different and even more uh
helpful to know every content creator is
going to be different some people are
really great at making three four 5
minute long videos the other day on Tik
Tok I watched a 10minute long video and
didn't even realize it 10 minutes on Tik
Tok where people famously watch like 3se
second video and I watched a 10-minute
video but the Creator was that engaging
that I was able to stick around for the
entire 10 minutes so know yourself know
your audience and play around with it to
find a length that is right for you but
if you can extend that length and keep
your audience's attention go for it so
that was his third and final
announcement and then he concluded his
Announcement by saying so if you're a
business owner hint hint he's calling
out his Niche by name my last five
YouTube videos is the new OG style I
think he meant to say are the new OG
style but as someone who is famous for
spelling and grammatical errors not
going to judge him for that but what
he's saying is he's kind of using this
post as an announcement and to promote
his new YouTube videos where he's going
in this style but then he goes on to say
just value which is I think really key
here he's focusing on the value rather
than the vanity I hope you prefer it as
much as I prefer making it which is key
he enjoys making content when you enjoy
making a certain kind of content it's
going to be evident to your audience
it's going to shine through in the video
that you're making if you're making a
video because a brand gave you a script
and they're paying you $100 to do it but
it doesn't align with you you're not
into it it doesn't resonate with who you
are and what you enjoy making your
audience is going to be able to tell and
I know that was a specific example but
any kind of content that you make for
any kind of platform if you're forcing
it it's not going to be very good one of
my favorite content creators Monty L
says uh content is kind of like a fart
the more you have to force it the more
likely it's going to be crap so I love
that heroi ends his Announcement by
saying I hope you prefer it as much as I
prefer making it back to business back
to business just a sign off we don't
need to break that down and this is a
challenge for you find a style of
content that you enjoy making or even
just that you prefer making more than
others and it will bring you Joy to
create that kind of content and your
audience will like the content more
they'll engage with it more because
scientifically I don't understand what
goes on behind the scenes in our brains
but subconsciously they'll be able to
tell now why do I think this is
happening number one I think it's just
the natural pendulum swing like that's
just kind of how things go they swing
back and forth we like short form then
we like long form we like horizontal
then we like vertical we like super
highly edited professional then we like
super raw uncut I would guess in like 2
to 3 years once everyone is posting
these like raw imperfect in the moment
kind of off the cuff videos suddenly
there's going to be one person who's
going to blow up for super great editing
because that will stand out right that's
different than the norm the pendulum is
always going to swing and once it swings
too far in One Direction and everyone is
doing one type of thing the other thing
will come back I think of like Reals in
2023 where 2022 2021 everyone was
posting reals they were everywhere they
were dominant they were crushing
everyone's posting like 90% of their
content being reals on Instagram and
then suddenly the pendulum swings back
Instagram balances out the algorithm
people start posting more photos and
more carousels and now carousels and
photos are doing really well and reals
are performing worse so it's just the
pendulum swinging back and forth that's
always how it goes the second reason why
I think that this is happening and we
talked about this one a little bit
earlier it's it's platform preferences
right I don't need to go deep into it
again but if the platform can keep you
on the platform for longer they can make
more money they can sell more ads they
can keep you around without having to
keep as much content in front of your
face it's just easier rather than having
to make three 1hour long movies they can
make one three-hour long movie it's less
expensive they need less actors less
editing it's a win-win and then the
third and final reason why I think this
is happening is audience fatigue and
this is something that I know I've run
into myself and this was actually the
initial reason why I wanted to do this
study into my reals because I always
tell people change things up change up
your background change up your lighting
your your clothes you're wearing the
coloring of your fonts and whatever just
change things up because and this is a
quote that I think I made up my mom
always loves to make fun of me for these
quotes that I claim as my own I think I
made this one up variety is the spice of
life that one's not mine everyone's
heard that one before variety is the
spice of life the second part is the one
I've made up variety is the spice of
life and the price of likes you get it
the price of likes variety is the price
of likes it Rhymes and I think it's true
I think that the more variety you can
incorporate into your content the more
likes you're going to get I think a
great example of this was a few weeks
ago I posted a reel where I was like
leaning into my car it was super dark
like you probably couldn't even tell I
was in my car you could just tell I was
in a new space I didn't have like my
fancy lighting or mic or anything I just
had like my little my little uh handheld
microphone and I was whispering the
entire time and so it was so different
than what people are used to for me
they're used to big lights they're used
to nice microphone they're used to good
editing and this was literally just like
60 seconds of me Whispering into my mic
microphone and that variety caught a lot
of people's attention and that was one
of my best performing posts in the month
of April so again variety is the spice
of life and the price of likes and so
this goes to my point that I think the
audience was getting fatigued I think
that when every single video you're
watching is like this ADHD style Super
Hyper cut tons of things going on maybe
you've even heard of this one style of
content called sludge content which is
the ultimate example of brain rot which
brain rot not to go off on another
tangent brain rot is this term that's
being thrown around a lot on social
media that's basically like hey our
brains are rotting we are watching this
super short form content our attention
spans are shrinking and our brains are
literally rotting I don't think that's
actually the case but I do think that
the um the idea behind it is true which
is that spending 9 hours a day on your
phone consuming short form videos that
are super highly editing um isn't the
best for your brain's Health but sludge
content going back to what I was talking
about is this style of content you might
have seen it on Tik Tok before where
there's two videos playing at the same
time which it's kind of crazy to think
about like imagine showing this to
someone even 50 years ago think about
showing this to like a pilgrim being
like hey watch this there's literally
like a talking head video or an
interview from a podcast on like the
upper half of the screen and then the
lower half of the screen is like someone
scooping sludge or someone like playing
Roblox on their computer and it's crazy
and the idea behind sludge content is
like let's give the person two things to
consume at once because their attention
span is so short that at least if they
get bored with the talking head video
they can like zone out and watch the the
lower video and then if they tune back
into to the talking head they can like
look back up it's crazy to actually
break down what sludge content is but
with that being prevalent with um just
this hyper editing hyper um cutup closed
caption all these different edits
transitions fancy microphone fancy
camera fancy lights all this crap it's
draining it's tiring and not only all of
that also if you're seeing a hundred of
these videos in a row they lose their
luster like it doesn't seem that cool or
impressive it's like if you watch 50
Marvel movies in a row you're not going
to be blown away by the CGI and the
explosions and the editing by the 50th
one you're going to be like yeah that's
what I expect now if you go from
watching black and white movies from the
1940s to all of a sudden an Avengers
endgame you're going to be blown away
you're like holy crap I didn't realize
this was possible but again just going
back to what I'm talking about here the
audience fatigue of lack of variety the
audience fatigue that is generated by
seeing the same hyper even if it's great
editing great quality even if all of
these things are true if it's the same
thing over and over and over again
people get bored and so that's why I
originally wanted to look into my reals
because I know that I record a lot of
reals like with this microphone with
this lighting with this lamp with photo
with this um shelving unit behind me and
I figured that it was starting to get
boring for people and of course you know
I'm vaguely aware of what my engagement
is like and so I was like you know I
notice when I post those I'm I'm pretty
sure my engagement is lower so I did
this study and I shared all the stats
with you earlier but it's crazy how much
worse my videos perform when they have
better quality content better editing
better lighting microphone camera Etc
and so the big takeaway from this entire
episode what I hope you take away from
it is that you need to just start
creating start creating raw imperfect
and messy maybe for the last year or so
you've been like I'm not sure if I can
post reals I'm not sure if I can
consistently post on Tik Tok I'm not
sure if I'm meant to be a YouTuber
because I don't have the nice camera the
nice microphone the nice lighting and I
love that I get to be the person to tell
you this right now forget all that crap
because you do not need it in fact all
of that crap is going to make your
videos perform worse all you need is the
phone in your hand if you want to buy a
$10 microphone off Amazon go for it I
think that might be the one piece of
equipment that I would recommend just
because audio quality is important but
fancy editing fancy transitions all of
this crap forget it forget the vanity
focus on the value focus on the message
that you're delivering focus on honing
in on what that Niche is who is the
primary demographic that you're talking
to and what is that specific topic that
you're going to be talking to them about
figure out those things and then just
start creating content start being
sloppy messy even if your your thought
isn't fully formed even if it's
imperfect even if you make a few
mistakes in the video keep rolling with
it and keep posting because at the end
of the day this is a numbers game and
your audience will appreciate that
vulnerability that authenticity and that
realness from you I'm excited to make
these changes myself in the next few
months I'd love to hear from you down in
the comments below if you're watching
this on YouTube what do you think about
all these changes have you noticed them
are you going to make these changes
yourself don't forget to subscribe and
as always happy networking
[Music]